.\" Copyright 2004 Osamu Aoki <osamu@debian.org>,
.\"           2004,2006 Ming Hua <minghua@rice.edu>.
.\" This man page is distributed under the same license as scim package.
.\"
.TH scim 1 "January 2006" "scim: 1.4.4" "scim manuals"
.
.SH NAME
scim \(em smart common input method
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scim \-l
.br
.BR scim " [" \-c " \fIconfig\fR]"
.RB [ \-e | \-ne " \fIengine\fR]"
.RB [ \-f " \fIfrontend\fR]"
.RB [ \-\-no\-socket ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.br
.B scim \-h
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Smart common input method (SCIM) is a platform for input methods.
Input methods are useful for users who need to input characters that can't be
represented by the keys or key combinations on the keyboard, and it's
essential for languages that use ideograms, such as Chinese, Japanese and
Korean (CJK), as their alphabets contain hundreds or thousands of characters.
.PP
This is the main program of SCIM platform.
It can be used to invoke the input method as well as list available input
method modules.
.
.SH OPTIONS
Most options have both a short version and a long version, and they take the
same arguments.
.TP
.BR \-c " | " \-\-config " \fImodule\fR"
Use specified Config module.
.TP
.BR \-d " | " \-\-daemon
Run as a daemon.
The program will exit and leave a daemon in the background if invoked with
this option.
.TP
.BR \-e " | " \-\-engines " \fImodule\fR[,\fImodule\fR]..."
Use specified IMEngine modules.
Only the named module(s) will be loaded, separate module names with comma.
.TP
.BR \-ne " | " \-\-no-engines " \fImodule\fR[,\fImodule\fR]..."
Use all IMEngine modules except specified ones.
All modules except the named one(s) will be loaded, separate module names with
comma.
.TP
.BR \-f " | " \-\-frontend " \fImodule\fR"
Use specified FrontEnd module.
.TP
.BR \-h " | " \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.BR \-l " | " \-\-list
Print the version number and list all the available modules, categorized in
three groups \(em FrontEnd, Config and IMEngine.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-socket
Do not start a socket FrondEnd module.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XMODIFIERS
Should be set to "@im=SCIM".
Note that \fBXMODIFIERS\fR is case sensitive, and \fBscim\fR need uppercase.
If you set it to lowercase, there will be no error message but \fBscim\fR
won't work.
.TP
.B GTK_IM_MODULE
GTK+ applications can use many different modules to connect with input
methods, and SCIM can work in two different modes to provide input methods to
GTK+ with two different modules.
One is XIM mode, using the "xim" GTK IM module from GTK+ itself.
The other is GTK IM mode, using the "scim" GTK IM module provided by SCIM
platform.
The environment variable \fBGTK_IM_MODULE\fR is used by GTK+ to specify which
GTK IM module the application should use, to use SCIM's two modes, set
\fBGTK_IM_MODULE\fR to "xim" or "scim" accordingly.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
To use \fBscim\fR in XIM mode, execute the following commands in an X terminal
(assuming Bourne style shell):
.RS
.B XMODIFIERS="@im=SCIM"
.br
.B export XMODIFIERS
.br
.B GTK_IM_MODULE="xim"
.br
.B export GTK_IM_MODULE
.br
.B scim \-d
.br
.RI < program >
.br
.RE
Now you can press Ctrl\-space to activate \fBscim\fR in the program you just
started from X terminal.
To avoid the inconvenience of having to start the program from X terminal,
make sure you set \fBXMODIFIERS\fR and \fBGTK_IM_MODULE\fR before starting
your X session.
.PP
To use \fBscim\fR in GTK IM mode, just start any GTK+ application, then right
click in the application, choose "Input Methods \-> SCIM Input Method" in the
pop\-up menu, and scim should automatically start.
Alternatively, you can use the following commands to set scim as the default
GTK IM module (again assuming Bourne style shell):
.RS
.B GTK_IM_MODULE="scim"
.br
.B export GTK_IM_MODULE
.br
.RI < gtk\-program >
.RE
Here \fBscim\fR will also automatically start when you start your GTK+
program.
However, it's still a good idea to start \fBscim\fR explicitly even if you use
GTK IM mode, because if only one application is using GTK IM mode, \fBscim\fR
will automatically stop when you quit this application.
Then when you start a new application, \fBscim\fR will start again, this can
cause quite long delay for application start and quit, giving people the
impression of "everything slows down when using scim".
.PP
The following command starts \fBscim\fR in daemon mode, using the simple
configure module, Pinyin IM engine module, X11 frontend module:
.RS
.B scim \-c simple \-e pinyin \-f x11 \-\-no\-socket \-d
.RE
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IR /etc/scim/global ", " /etc/scim/config
Configuration file for system wide settings
.TP
.IR ~/.scim/global ", " ~/.scim/config
User specific settings
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
There is a brief English README giving some introduction and tips about SCIM,
in \fBDebian\fR system it's installed in \fI/usr/share/doc/scim/\fR and
gzipped.
.PP
\fBDebian\fR users should also read the \fINEWS.Debian\fR and
\fIREADME.Debian\fR files in \fI/usr/share/doc/scim/\fR.
There are also other README files in the same directory about using SCIM on a
\fBDebian\fR system.
.
.SH AUTHOR
SCIM platform is written by James Su and many other contributors.
.PP
This manual page is written by Osamu Aoki and Ming Hua for the \fBDebian\fR
system, but hopefully it's also useful for other users.
This document is distributed under the same license as the scim software
package.
.\"
.\" vim:textwidth=78:
