.\" Copyright 2006 ZhengPeng Hou <zhengpeng.hou@gmail.com>,
.\" This man page is distributed under the same license as scim-bridge package.
.\"
.TH "SCIM-IM-AGENT AKA SCIM-BRIDGE" "1"
.SH "NAME"
scim-im-agent \(em scim-im-agent was previously known as scim-bridge and is yet another IM client of SCIM. The im-module of scim-im-agent communicates with scim via socket.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBscim-im-agent;\fR [\fB-h \fI\-\-help\fR\fP]  [\fB-v\fI\-\-verbose\fR\fP]  [\fB-q\fI\-\-quiet\fR\fP]  [\fB-b\fI\-\-debugflags\fR\fP]  [\fB-l\fI\-\-debuglevel\fR\fP]  [\fB-standalone\fI\-\-standalone\fR\fP]  [\fB-n\fI\-\-noexit\fR\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This manual page documents briefly the
\fBscim-im-agent\fR command.
.PP
This manual page was written for the \fBDebian\fP distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax,
with long options starting with two dashes (`\-').  A summary of
options is included below.
.IP "\fB-h\fP           \fB\-\-help\fP         " 10
Give this help list.
.IP "\fB-v\fP           \fB\-\-verbose\fP         " 10
Verbosely print out the debug message into standard output.This option equals to '\-\-debuglevel=9 \-\-debugflags=all'.
.IP "\fB-q\fP           \fB\-\-quiet\fP         " 10
Make it print no debug message at all.This option equals to '\-\-debuglevel=0 \-\-debugflags=none'.
.IP "\fB-b\fP           \fB\-\-debugflags\fP         " 10
Set which category of debug output do you need.Select one or more from 'all', 'none', 'agent', 'messenger', 'imcontext', and 'scim'.
.IP "\fB-l\fP           \fB\-\-debuglevel\fP         " 10
Set how verbosely should it print debug output.'\-\-debuglevel=0' equals to '\-\-quiet', and '\-\-debuglevel=9' equals to '\-\-verbose'.
.IP "\fB-standalone\fP           \fB\-\-standalone\fP         " 10
Given this, scim-brige-agent won't daemonize itself.
.IP "\fB-n\fP           \fB\-\-noexit\fP         " 10
Given this, scim-brige-agent won't exit when there is no client.
.SH "AUTHOR"
scim-bridge was originally written by Ryo Dairiki.
.PP
This manual page was written by Zhengpeng Hou zhengpeng-hou@ubuntu.com for
the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Mon 03 Apr 2006, 10:00
